# Snake

Since graduating college and starting my new job at KHESLC, I fell out of the habit of coding. Last month, I decided to teach myself game development from scratch in Java using online video tutorials to develop this habit again. I enjoyed working on this project very much. One decision I committed to early on was to hard code the screen settings. I did this so that I could know exactly the dimensions of the screen and break it up into an evenly sized grid. Hard coding the screen settings also allowed me to create a custom tile map in a text file. The map of the game was decided by either a 0,1, or 2 in the text file, where each number corresponded to an image the size of one of the elements of the grid. 

However, the way I sized the game also ended up creating a lot of difficulties along the way. For example, each element of the grid was 48 by 48 pixels, and the speed of the snake was 4 pixels. The speed of the snake being different from the size of the grid created problems because it was easy to misalign the snake from the grid and cause problems with collision detection. Collision works by comparing the position of the head of the snake with the position of the wall, the apple, or the body of the snake. If the apple was aligned with the grid and the snake wasn't, the snake would appear to run right over the apple without triggering collision detection. This bug is because if the snake is misaligned, then the X or Y axis of the snake will never be equal to the X or Y axis of the apple, therefore not triggering collision detection.

My solution to this problem was to restrict the movement of the snake so that it only moves on the screen every 12 frames. Since each element of the grid is 48 by 48 frames, and the speed of the player is 4 frames, then the snake moves a full element-length every 12 frames. Therefore, I kept a list of the movement of the snake and only updated the position of the snake on the game screen every 12 frames. I still have some problems with collisions in the game; sometimes the snake will lose too early before hitting its body or the snake will appear to touch the wall without losing. I believe if I ever dabble with game development again I will need to have more careful planning with how movement will interact with the sizing of elements in the game. I feel that while there are still some minor bugs in the game, I am happy with this project at its current state and the educational experience I had.

 Below I have linked the video tutorials I watched to get started on the project. They were fantastic. 

 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=om59cwR7psI&list=PL_QPQmz5C6WUF-pOQDsbsKbaBZqXj4qSq&ab_channel=RyiSnow
